Welcome back. Now when the previous video we talked about how we need some sort of key exchange algorithm,
and this key exchange algorithm needs something called asymmetrical encryption.
I know it's it's a lot to take in but stick with me.
Hopefully this little drawing will help you out.
Now unlike symmetrical encryption, an asymmetrical encryption uses two separate keys for encryption and
decryption.
So these red keys are owned by this blue laptop.
And these blue keys are owned by this other computer.
Now these two keys, are known as public keys and private keys and together these keys form a public private
key pair.
And as the name suggest these ones are public so I can share this red key with anybody I want in the world.
It can be out in the open.
It's not a big problem.
And same with this blue one.
But these ones, that are private, that are kind of in the shadows,
these are your absolute secrets that you shouldn't never ever share with anybody.
Now these public keys are linked with the private key in terms of functionality.
You can see that they're both red, they're both blue here.
The private key cannot mathematically compute from the public key.
So what does that mean?
Are the relationships a little bit complex but a message shut is encrypted by machines public key can
only be decrypted by the same machines private key.
And it's what we call a one way relationship.
So let me show you how it works.
If I send my public key to my friend's computer, and let's say that friend also sends his public key
to my computer if I want to send a message I can say hello send it over by encrypting it with his blue
key his public key is going to get jumbled up and encrypted like this.
And when I send it over to him, well now he can use his private key because this piece of text was encrypted
by the public.
So the private key can decrypt it.
Do its magic.
And then finally get the message.
Hello
So you see here now how we can send public keys to other people and bad people can grab the public key.
But because it's one way relationship this public key cannot decrypt its own message nor can it decrypt
anything encrypted by a private key.
It can only encrypt something and it can only be decrypted by its paired private key.
That again is never ever shared with anybody.
Now the strength of the entire connection lies in the fact that the private key is never relieved right.
All right.
Awesome. So that makes sense right?
A little bit more complicated than symmetrical encryption but I think we get now if we go back to where
we started most people think that SSH uses asymmetrical encryption entirely and that's not entirely
true.
It's this form of encryption with SSH is actually only used during the key exchange algorithm of symmetric
encryption.
You remember that right.
We need some way with symmetric encryption to generate that yellow key without it entering the public.
What happens as a sage is that before we initiate a secure connection both parties generate temporary
public and private keys and share their respective keys.
To one another.
And at this point we're able to get these yellow keys the symmetric key so we can exchange method messages
using something called the Diffie Hellman key exchange.
And I'm going to link to some resources that you can use because it is a little bit mathematically complex
but what it does basically is that it uses a bit of this information a bit of this information a bit
of the public keys to generate without ever exchanging the keys.
Each machine on its computer can generate this symmetric key from data from each computer.
And again this Diffie Helman algorithm or key key exchange algorithm makes it possible for each party
to combine their own private data with public data are from other systems to arrive in an identical
secret session key.
I know that's a mouthful and I know that's confusing.
Like I said check out the resource after this video if you want to learn more about it.
But by now we should know how we're able to generate a symmetric key using asymmetrical encryption using
the Diffie Hellman key exchange.
And this way this yellow key is going to stay private to us and it's never going to touch the public
by the way.
You might be thinking.
All right.
Enough talk about S-sh.
This is getting boring Andre.
C'mon we just started the course.
Trust me this type of encryption is everywhere.
You're probably using it right now to watch this video using Diffie Hellman key exchange.
And when you use your phone to do anything where it connects to a server it uses Diffie Hellman key
exchange.
And we should know how these things work.
Right.
As a developer we need to understand how things work not just on the surface level.
You might notice how it's kind of funny right.
The name key exchange is that we don't actually change a key because it would be out in the public and
we don't want that.
We actually just share a piece of public bill such as our public keys from each computer and we generate
the key separately in our own private space.
All right let's take a little bit of a break and I'll see you in the next video because I know that
was a lot of information.
I'll see that one bye bye.